Okay, so this naturally leads to
another question, which is, okay,
I don't wanna read 100 bytes, I wanna read
all the bytes, however many bytes for
the file, that's how many I wanna read.
So to do this, we actually have to do
another step, which is, we need to go and
look at actually run a function that
will ask the operating system, hey,
how many bytes are in this file?
So basically, there's a couple of steps
to the process we're gonna do here.
First is, I wanna get the size of the file
on disks as a function we can call,
it'll do that.
Second, I want to make a buffer
of however many bytes that is.
So I don't wanna make
a buffer of 100 bytes,
I wanna make a buffer that's
exactly that many bytes.
And then three I can call
read passing that buffer and
then it'll just read
that many bytes in there.
Great, okay, so
here's how we're gonna do that.
Yeah [LAUGH] don't worry,
we're not actually using all this.
So this is what's called stat,
and stat is a struct in C.
So a struct, you can kind of think about
it like an object in other languages, but
a very, very bare bones,
very, very minimal object.
Really what a struct is in C is,
it's maybe more similar to imagine if
you just had all these variables
one after the other and
they were all just contiguously
stored back to back in memory.
They're not quite contiguous.
There's this thing called
alignment padding, but
we're not gonna get into
alignment in this workshop.
But the basic idea here is that
there's no extra metadata here at all.
So in some languages
you can do stuff like,
I can iterate over all the fields and
they'll give them the strings.
These strings are gone,
C is I don't know, forget about that,
we're just throwing those out the window.
These are just conveniences for
the programmer so that it knows that this
string means get the first one and
this string means get the second one.
So if you say start.mode_t, it's,
that means get the memory at this offset.
So this is all just one big
contiguous chunk of bytes.
And in fact, if you wanted to you could
try to get access to these different
fields on this struct by just taking
the memory address of your particular
stat instance and just doing the same
thing we've been doing with these arrays.
Just like +5, +6, whatever,
just add to it and
just read the memory at that address, and
that's what you're gonna get right here.
So essentially, the struct concept in C
is a way to essentially have an array of
bytes, but with conveniences.
So that you can actually refer to
different chunks of this big set of ones
and zeros by name, rather than having
to do all this arithmetic like
we've been doing to get the offset
right and then cast to this or that.
So it's essentially a convenience for
what we're doing.
Now we're gonna call this
C function in a second,
that's going to give us
back a stat instance.
So it's basically gonna give
us one of these values.
And then what we're gonna do is we're
gonna get the thing that we care about,
which is this, st_size, which is
the total size in bytes of the file.
Now you might notice the entire struct
stat is way more information than just
the total size in bytes.
This is 144 bytes worth of data, and
it's got all sorts of stuff like the inode
number, in case you hear that,
the user ID of the owner, the group ID,
the device ID, last access time,
last modification time, all this stuff.
There's all this information
about the metadata of the file.
And when we do this one function call,
it just gives us back that one thing,
this whole struct even though all we
care about is just this one thing.
So here's how we're gonna do that.
We're gonna say struct stat metadata.
The struct keyword is essentially kind
of int or char or something like that,
except that it's saying this
isn't one of the built-in types,
this is actually
a user-defined struct type.
And then the next thing you
say is the name of the struct.
So struct followed by stat.
So stat is the name of the struct
that this is gonna be.
And we say metadata, once again, we
are actually not initializing this memory.
So we're not doing an equals.
You remember previously, we said,
I wanna make this buffer, and I said,
(100); which basically means I want you
to reserve, this is gonna be an address,
and I want you to reserve that many bytes,
100 bytes of memory.
Don't put other stuff in there,
because I'm gonna write into this.
This is exactly the same thing, except
instead of 100 bytes its the 144 bytes
that this thing takes up automatically.
So the compiler is gonna
take care of that for you.
But basically, when you get to this
program, if you were to look at
the assembly language, basically what it's
gonna be doing is saying, essentially,
reserve 144 bytes worth of stuff, and
then just give me back the address to
the beginning of that, and
I'm gonna write into that.
And just like with read, essentially
you call this function called fstat,
which basically is fd, I'll talk about
the ampersand in a second here, and
then metadata.
And it's basically gonna be, okay cool,
give me the file descriptor, give me
the address to write into, and it's just
gonna go ahead and write 144 bytes into
that memory that contains all of this
metadata information about the file.
So after we have run this,
now I can go look at my metadata thing and
say, .this.that, get the values off of it.
But until I've actually called that fstat,
I have not populated this metadata thing,
and this is just memory garbage.
Again, I could say metadata.,
whatever, st_rdev, whatever, and
that's just gonna give me back
a couple of bytes of memory garbage,
whatever happens to be a memory until
I've actually called fstat on it.
Once again, it returns -1 if it fails.
So once again,
this is where we do the error handling.
This time I did a little,
because we're actually not
using the output of fstat at all,
the return value is only used for
error handling,
which is also a common thing we see in C.
It's really common in that case
just to do if, call the thing,
double equals -1 and
then just handle the errors right there.
And if there is no error,
then we'll just pass through this if and
not do any of that stuff.
So what the ampersand does
is it basically says, okay,
give me the address of the first
byte of those 144 bytes.
So unlike arrays, unlike strings, when you
have a struct like this, what this is,
by default, it's more similar to
an individual int or an individual char,
where basically if we have an int, that's
like a 32-bit integer, which is 4 bytes.
Those 4 bytes, if I pass this fd around,
that 4 bytes are gonna get
copied around every single time.
So whenever you pass this to a function,
what the CPU is doing is saying,
that's a 4-byte integer, copy all 4 of
those bytes into whatever global thing
is gonna be used by that function.
With structs, you maybe don't want
that because this is 144 bytes.
So the default behavior of passing around
144 bytes every single time, well, that
would mean that something like fstat for
example, actually fstat is a bad example.
But if I wanted to pass this around from
function to function, that would be a lot
of bytes to be copying around just to
get the data from point A to point B.
So in those scenarios, basically,
C gives you a way to say, okay,
I don't want all 144
bytes to be copied here.
I just want you to go give me the address,
which is gonna be a much
more compact 8-bytes.
And the ampersand is basically,
take whatever thing I've got here and
give me the memory address of it.
And so this not only does it work with
structs, but it also works with anything.
So for example, if I said ampersand fd,
that would say, okay,
I don't want the actual integer
of the file descriptor,
I want the address of
that file descriptor.
In other words, I wanna know
where in memory that thing is.
So you can do this on absolutely anything.
Anywhere in C,
if you're I have a thing, and
I got the value at runtime that's
actually useful, I wanna see where
that thing is stored in memory, stick
an ampersand on there, and it'll tell you.
It'll just turn it right into
that memory address right there.
So this is a way to get a struct
in this sort of a more array-like,
more string-like fashion,
which is what fstat expects.
Okay, so we ran fstat.
We already handled the error case.
We assume there's no error at this point.
Now metadata,
that struct has 144 bytes populated.
And now we can finally
print out metadata.st_size.
St_size has a, ld is the [LAUGH]
escape code there for some reason.
Like I said, they just have all
these different escape codes.
I don't know where they come up with
the naming conventions for these, but for
this particular size, that's the one that
you need to use in order to print it out.
And it will sure enough print it out.
And so
now we actually know how big our file is.
We know how much memory to reserve, so
that when we do our read, we're actually
reading the appropriate amount of bytes,
rather than that hard-coded 100 bytes.
Now, you might have thought this is
gonna be really simple, straightforward,
and just be, just file.,
how big are you, [LAUGH] right?
Not quite.
[LAUGH] It's a little bit of
an extra dance, a little bit of
a stomping over memory with other memory,
uninitialized memory, that kind of stuff.
But the reason we're going through this
process is just to give you a sense of
this is how things are done in C.
And also worth noting,
this is also quite efficient,
and when we get to the section on heat
memory, we can see how the thing that's
more convenient is in many ways less
efficient than doing it this way.